a new report by the United Nations says
that there are quote reasonable grounds
to believe that rape and gang rape
occurred during the October 7th
terrorist attacks led by Hamas against
Israel the UN Mission interviewed
survivors and Witnesses and examined
hours of video footage and thousands of
photographs to arrive at this conclusion
the special representative on sexual
violence said she and a team of experts
had found clear and convincing
information about rape and sexualized
torture
the report also said that some incidents
of rape could not be verified but there
was convincing information that hostages
taken from Israel were subjected to
sexual violence during their captivity
oober meanwhile the head of the un's
Palestinian refugee agency unra has
warned of a deliberate campaign to
destroy it following a funding freezed
by donors speaking at the UN General
Assembly Philipe lazarini stressed that
the agency was vital to support what he
called a sea of displaced Palestinians
in Gaza he alleged the Israeli
government was trying to undermine the
agency for political ends Israel has
repeatedly accused anra of employing
Staff linked to Hamas and other militant
groups that's led many countries to
suspend
funding lazarini warned that the agency
was being pushed to the brink we are
functioning hand to
m without additional funding we will be
in Uncharted
Territory with serious implication for
Global Peace and
security the fate of the agency and the
millions of people who depend on it hung
in the
balance
excellencies un is facing a deliberate
and concerted campaign to undermine its
operations and ultimately end
them DW correspondent Tanya Kramer joins
us now from Jerusalem Tanya the head of
the UN Palestinian refugee agency claims
there's a deliberate and concerted
campaign aimed at ending its operations
in Gaza what's Israel's response to
that well I think Israel uh has made it
uh repeatedly clear that they don't see
a role anymore for unra in Gaza and
potentially also o uh in the region and
uh Israel's military spokesperson Dan in
hagari last night in that regard they
released again audio recording as they
say uh reportedly um it's the voices of
two uh uh people uh two uh employees of
unra as they say that are linked
directly to um taking hostages uh at
least one of them uh on October uh 7th
now the head head of unra Philipe larini
as we heard him now speaking last night
uh said they have received no clear
evidence uh of Israel for their claims
and that uh unra has stressed time and
time again that they are submitting the
list of employees um uh to Israel and
that over the year there were no uh um
you know no complaints received by unia
over these uh um uh employees um of
course this has direct repercussions as
we heard for Palestinians in Gaza unra
is the biggest Aid provider in Gaza and
obviously uh a lot of donor countries
have suspended their aid so this has a
direct impact now uh on the people in
Gaza now the UN had also faced criticism
for reacting too slowly to reports that
Hamas used sexual violence during its
attacks on October 7th Tanya a un report
has now come out uh it's been published
saying on that very topic tell us
more well the reactions are coming in
now from Israel and we heard from the
foreign Ministry that they welcomed uh
as they put it the definitive uh
recognition that Hamas committed sexual
crimes and they're calling for convening
the UN Security Council we also uh just
got a statement by president itak are
calling the report of immense importance
showing uh that there was systematic and
ongoing sexual crimes committed uh by
Hamas now this comes as you said there
was a lot of criticism leveled at the
United Nations especially also at uh uh
the un uh women uh agency that they were
not um uh acting uh fast enough not
taking it uh serious enough and now we
have uh the UN special representative on
sexual violence and conflict prila
Patton as you said they were in Israel
Gathering the information and she has
said that they found clear and
convincing information that hostages
have been subjected to sexual violence
that this could be potentially be
ongoing and also that there were
reasonable grounds to believe that uh
sexual violence rape and gang rape uh
happened uh during the terror attacks on
October
7th now all this comes Tanya as
negotiators
meet in Cairo for talks on a truce and
uh on Rel getting the release of those
uh of those hostages from from Gaza
what's the latest there briefly if you
can yeah diplomatics efforts are ongoing
as we understand and it would be a third
day uh where um uh negotiators come
together from Egypt Qatar uh Hamas and
also from the US uh in Kyo they're
expected uh to uh continue those
negotiations but uh it seems that there
is one of the problems Israel is not
part at the moment they haven't been
their delegation is not in Karu yet they
have said that they want to see a list
of Hamas of those hostages that are
still alive 130 hostages are believed to
be in Gaza 30 of them are presumably
have been killed but they want to see
this before those negotiations are uh
further going Tanya thank you very much
that was our correspondent Tanya Kramer
in
Jerusalem